this video is going to be a short
relatively simple anecdote about a
conversation I had with a slaughterhouse
worker vegans often find themselves
cornered into the situation of having
philosophical discussions in the ancient
Greek sense in the Peripatetic sense and
the platonic sense and so on which is
that unlike many other belief systems if
you are vegan very often people really
will sort of corner you and ask you to
justify not only your own life asks you
to make sense out of the whole world
well explain to me how evolution works
you know well if you're vegan make sense
out of the food chain for me fundamental
questions what the meaning of life about
biological history about history of
human civilization
the future of Agriculture vegans
actually much more than other people get
confronted with this stuff but anyway I
myself had to deal with that in my own
life it was worse than France God in
France the level of defense of this and
hostility about veganism is unbelievable
one of the things I get fan mail both at
this channel I have had people writing
to me saying that they enjoy watching
this channel because they feel like
they're rehearsing their own ability to
in this sense philosophize about
veganism so this is philosophizing in
the sense from 500 BC in Athens which
really just means being able to talk
about the meaning of life being able to
have some kind of meaningful
conversation about fundamental questions
of ethics and metaphysics and what have
you not philosophy in our current sense
of an academic discipline publishing
books that nobody reads or professors
publishing books that only get read by
other university professors and you know
another guy stands out here on YouTube
Ali Tabrizi what really made me like his
channel was simply seeing him at
protests and other actions talking to
factory workers talking to the guys
drive the trucks to and from the
slaughterhouses talking to normal people
as normal people instead of screaming in
their faces
now some ecological protest groups and
some vegan protest groups really believe
that screaming in someone's face is the
most effective means of activism I
disagree that for many reasons but the
screaming in people's faces the people
being screamed at are unlikely to learn
anything and the people doing the
screaming definitely are not going to
learn anything I think we see an ally to
Breezies Channel I can remember him
talking to some some truck drivers that
way I can also remember though he was
just talking to some people in Trafalgar
Square one of the public squares in
London and you know just talk to them as
know and listening to their answers and
being engaged with you know what they
have to say in a human and open way
everyone can learn from that and before
I get onto my main point here this is
this one anecdote about this guy worked
in a slaughterhouse I've seen in her
vegans trying to depict slaughterhouse
employees as the ultimate victims of the
meatpacking industry so not as people
who profit from a benefit from this
industry but as people who are
themselves in some sense traumatized by
hmm exploited by the meat industry and
as if all the employees of
slaughterhouses are desperately trying
to quit or escape their sad fate this is
a stereotype that would not endure
scrutiny and also just wouldn't injure
thee you know practical open-minded
experience of having talked to people
who had those jobs including people who
felt some sense of pride in those jobs
so my former landlord he was Australian
and he thought of himself as a macho guy
he drank a lot of beer he watched a lot
of sports Australian Rules rugby that
sort of thing constantly he worked for
many years in a slaughterhouse and he
said to me very proudly
and with this sort of contemptuous
snorting that British and Australian
people do constantly suggesting that
there was there was no possible view to
the contrary that not only was he proud
of his years working in a slaughterhouse
but that it was one of the best jobs he
had in his life and he would gladly go
back to that job if he could that he
would take up the same job again I think
he said that I think he's specified the
last part in response to my question
because I was using Socratic method I
was asking questions rather than
contradicting him and among other things
I said well yes you worked in a
slaughterhouse and you say you're proud
of it now but I noticed you're not
working to slaughter us anymore you've
moved on to other things and you
probably don't want to go back to it so
he said no no on the contrary that he
would very gladly and he gave some of
the other justifications you'll hear
from meat eaters such as claiming how
tremendously efficient the
slaughterhouse was and that no part of
the animal was wasted this sort of thing
now what look to highlight here is how
different people's reactions are when
you refer to the past or when you refer
to the future in these sorts of moral
questions so he felt that his time at
the slaughterhouse was a very positive
thing in his life because he was my
landlord I knew his wife and I knew his
daughter I didn't know any of them
personally I just say I I knew them in
the way you know people you've met and
chatted with a few times he had a very
cute a very naive daughter she had led a
sheltered life which is a wonderful
thing it's not a criticism she was the
kind of little girl who would walk up to
a complete stranger and ask if they
would play badminton with her you know
so she still had that kind of really
childlike innocence and as she went
around her life and my landlord who had
all of these justifications and all this
blustering self-confident all of this
[ __ ] to be frank about what a tough
guy he was and how he didn't feel
anything you know it didn't have any
traumatizing or negative effect on him
to witness thousands and thousands of
cows being slaughtered on a daily basis
in this way and to be literally involved
in the machinery of that process because
that was role sharpening the blades and
so on and welding the medal back
together because you know the cows
thrash against the metal rails and their
agony and so eventually the metal gets
bent or broken and that somebody has to
weld the metal back together and repair
it and I simply said to him you know
because he had said it he described
himself as having pride in this job I
said if your daughter told you that she
was going to apply for that job would
you feel proud of her would you be happy
if that was your daughter's future boy
he could not respond verbally after all
of this [ __ ] claiming that he was
proud of it it was a positive thing that
the whole factory was wonderful and
claimed it was a good thing in his life
and he would go back into the same job
again simply asking the question for the
next generation how and you know in a
sense what he was doing was justifying
that this was not a job he was forced to
take out of poverty it was not a job he
was ashamed of obviously the reality is
he would feel deeply ashamed if his
daughter was forced in the future to
take up that job and obviously he had
never thought of it before
and just picturing in his mind's eye
just imagining his daughter being in
that factory and witnessing what goes on
there was deeply upsetting horrifying
him the other reality is at that time I
was doing about a hundred push-ups a day
it wasn't in great shape I was walking
long distances in the tropical heat in
Cambodia and I couldn't I couldn't
access a gym I didn't really have any
weights I think I had a couple of 10 and
20-pound weights but I was in by Western
standards I was in reasonable shape
and you know this landlord he was the
cartoon image of how the basic Western
diet destroys your health and destroys
her life I don't have any reason to
think he was an alcoholic
probably by australian standards his
drinking would be considered normal but
he was drinking beer constantly he was
eating meat constantly and he was not
very happy with his job in Cambodia with
his situation there is a landlord taking
care of this building and he did fly
back to Australia at one point while I
was still a tenant there not to try to
get a job at a slaughterhouse again but
he was trying to get a job actually at a
mine in a mining company and this also
related to his expertise with repairing
bladed machines haha whatever welding
metal together this kind of stuff
not a mining site and the doctor looked
him over and did all the regular tests
of his risk for heart attack his blood
pressure standard tests and this
Australian doctor employed by the mining
company said to him look I know you want
this job I can lie and write down on the
papers that you're in good enough health
to take the job but there's a really
good chance that you're gonna collapse
and die on this mine site any given day
with your health being the way it is and
he thought about it and he thought about
his daughter and he got back on an
airplane and came back to Cambodia he
didn't take the job
so all this macho [ __ ] has to stop
somewhere many men in Western culture
are genuinely self-sacrificing they will
genuinely die in a factory died in a
mine die in war they may be genuinely
eager to sacrifice themselves for money
or for an ideological
or for some reason and then you go to
ask yourself when you're looking toward
the future when all of these excuses are
added up when it's a question of whether
or not you're gonna actually live to see
your daughter grow to adulthood when
it's a question of not whether or not
you are tough enough to endure the
horrors in that factory and that
slaughterhouse but instead it's your
daughter when it's not you justifying
your heritage or past in your culture
but instead it's a question of what
people should do in the future
sooner or later all that macho [ __ ]
has to stop